Hi everyone. We're going to look at some Universal Quant Features.
The first one is stock volatility.
Zipline has a custom factor called AnnualizedVolatility and the source code is here.
So, we can take a look here.
You can see that we're looking inside zipline, pipeline, factors, basic.py.
If we search for AnnualizedVolatility,
we can see that there's this class defined here which we will be able to use,
and just note that I actually copied this source code into the notebook.
So, if we went back to the notebook,
we can see that I just pasted the code here, right?
So, let's first just get familiar with this class.
So, volatility has a standard deviation call.
So, it's taking the standard deviation of returns.
Okay? And then it's going to annualize it from daily to annual returns.
Okay? By multiplying by the square root of 252.
So, notice that this variable is actually defined outside of the function here.
So, we have a variable params which is a dictionary.
One of its keys is annualization factor,
and the value is 252.
So, there's some things going on behind the scenes,
but the annualization factor that you defined here and the value here,
ends up right here.
Okay? So, you could have also hard-coded 252 for instance.
Also, the inputs are the daily returned.
So, we're actually using class returns,
and we're setting the window length to two.
Because for daily returns,
we need the price data of the previous day
and then the following day to calculate the daily return.
Here the window length is by default 252.
So, that means that we're getting 252 daily returns,
and then we're calculating the standard deviation of that sample of 252 returns.
So again, notice that because we are in zipline, pipeline,
factors, you'll notice that when we import,
we go from zipline.pipeline.factors and then we import that class, AnnualizedVolatility.
We can make an instant of it by calling the constructor.
So, you can see that here.